Precourse (#160)
foundersandcoders/coursebook: documents/installation-list.md

# Installation List

## For OSX Users:

- Install [Brew](http://brew.sh/)
- Optional: iTerm2

## For Linux Users:  

| Distro        | Base           | Package Manager | 
|-------------|-------------|-----  
| [Ubuntu](https://www.ubuntu.com/) | [Debian](https://www.debian.org/) | [APT](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/apt.html) | 
| [Linux Mint](https://linuxmint.com/) | [Debian](https://www.debian.org/) | [APT](https://help.ubuntu.com/lts/serverguide/apt.html) |  

- Ubuntu and Linux Mint are probably the two most used desktop Linux distros out there. Mint is becoming increasingly popular and in a lot of ways, is more beginner-friendly than Ubuntu. It also uses up less memory resource (the most lightweight Mint edition is XFCE), and will be better suited to slower machines.

> ## For Windows Users:

Reviewer: I also feel like we could mention WSL2, since a few of FAC19 ended up using it successfully with Postgres. Since dual-booting appears to be impossible for at least some hardware.

Author: My understanding was that those who were using WSL were having problems at Postgres week.

Were there people using straight Windows in DB week?

Reviewer: At least one person got WSL2 working. The two who ended up spending ages switching to Linux were on straight Windows yeah.

Since WSL2 is still v new/experimental maybe we should wait to recommend it

- [How to install Ubuntu 18.04 alongside Windows 10](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1031993/how-to-install-ubuntu-18-04-alongside-windows-10) - useful at time of posting (mid 2018)
- [Dual boot Linux](https://www.howtogeek.com/214571/how-to-dual-boot-linux-on-your-pc/) 
- We shall have a couple of FAC students and alumni available at the installation party to guide you through installing linux. Please come along if you have Windows OS.
- This [Lifewire article](https://www.lifewire.com/beginners-guide-to-linux-4090233) is informative and accessible, and [this PCWorld article](https://www.pcworld.com/article/2918397/how-to-get-started-with-linux-a-beginners-guide.html) has more info on installing Linux.
- Dual boot [Windows 10 + Linux Mint](https://itsfoss.com/guide-install-linux-mint-16-dual-boot-windows/), and [Windows 10 + Ubuntu](https://itsfoss.com/install-ubuntu-1404-dual-boot-mode-windows-8-81-uefi/)
- Some extra info on [APT](https://itsfoss.com/apt-command-guide/), the command-line tool for the Debian packaging system.

> - Finally please do not hesistate to come to a meetup or contact us on slack if you are having trouble, we can help!

Reviewer: This feels like a lot of resources to throw at them. Is there a single definitive guide we can provide?

## Chromebook Users:

- Chromebooks [all now officially run Linux](https://www.techradar.com/uk/news/all-chromebooks-will-now-be-linux-ready) and [setting it up on older machines](https://support.google.com/chromebook/answer/9145439?hl=en-GB) is pretty simple, too.

## For Everyone:

- Install and manage Node.js using [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm).  
Note: We will be covering Node.js during the course. If you are curious and would like some background reading, [Art of Node](https://github.com/maxogden/art-of-node) is a great resource.

> - Install a text editor of your choice. We reccommend either: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install a text editor of your choice. We recommend: 
```
there's only one option 😆

- Install and manage Node.js using [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm).  
Note: We will be covering Node.js during the course. If you are curious and would like some background reading, [Art of Node](https://github.com/maxogden/art-of-node) is a great resource.

> - Install a text editor of your choice. We reccommend: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install a text editor of your choice. We recommend: 
```

little typo
